# STAT451-Final
### Research Question:
> **How do various socioeconomic and demographic factors affect crime rates across the United States?**

The United States has a relatively high crime rate compared to other developed countries such as China, Japan, Singapore, etc. The US has a rate of around 381 incidents per 100,000 people in 2022. According to the general public, most Americans do not feel safe in America.

There are many reasons and factors that contribute to the high crime rate, and we can’t simply pin down one factor. Therefore, we aim to find the relationship between health, economics, social factors, and crime rate. We will be exploring multiple datasets that contain information of these intertwined factors, such as crime rate by county, violent crime rate by state, demographic descriptions and crime, unemployment rate, health and opportunity metrics, and other social factors. We intend to highlight trends and associations between these areas of interest, mainly their relationship with crime rate, but also may include analysis between these factors to better understand the multifaceted impact on one another.

We have identified 6 datasets from various sources including Kaggle and the government websites that contain information about one or more of these factors for further analysis and visualization. These datasets are available as csvs, which will alow us to easily import them into R for analysis. As our question is fairly open ended and allows room for exploration into the data, our question will able to be answered from multiple perspectives and angles using these datasets. Some have redundant information, like crimedata and crime-rates-by-us-state, but they also contain unique info that can add depth to our analysis, such as income and population. Our intention with adding many datasets is it allows us the ability to explore the data, identify interesting associations that tell a story, and visualize this to convey a message. To answer our question, it will consist of trial and error, exploring which factors show influence in crime, as well as influence on one another. 
